Hello again you wonderful go to people in this video let's actually start displaying some information
to the player.
We're going to make a graphic user interface which I'm going to pronounce gooey.
Some people don't like to pronounce it gooey.
I like to pronounce it gooey.
That's how I'm pronouncing it.
OK.
Enough about pronunciation.
What are we going to do.
Well we're going to add a gooey.
And we're going to update lives when Bunny is hot.
Nice a symbol for someone who is getting got out and I got to figure out where to put this.
Now I want to right click on player and do eligible children.
Just what we talk about this.
I could put the goofy as a child off camera but I'm tempted just to have it as part of the level itself.
So I don't need this to be editable.
That was really just there to show you what that would look like.
So let's get rid of that again.
Well children.
Yes that's fine.
And I'm going to make a brand new note and this is going to be a canvas layer.
Now we looked at canvas low made the parallax background but a canvas layer is a node that is always
in the same place on the screen.
It doesn't matter what's moving.
It's just a layer on top of.
Or if you like it behind the action.
This is great for goofy because as bunnies hopping around the place the the elements of the go we're
going to stay in one spot so cavalier and I'm this gooey.
Great.
Now the gooey should probably be a scene.
So let's save it as a scene.
Right click on it and to save branch scene.
Admittedly I could have just made a new scene and then imported it but I wanted to show you how you
could export a branch of a tree as a scene.
So right click and save punch a scene and let's make a new folder create folder.
And it's gonna be called Gilly.
And there goes.
Fantastic.
So let's open the gooey scene Al gooey is going to have a control node that's going to be there to keep
everything where we need it to be.
So let's give this a full rectangles.
That's the amount of space like.
And you know what let's take a look at our helpers so show helpers.
These green dots show you the anchors.
So we are anchored at the full screen.
That means however we resize the display.
It will always try and put things in the right place.
OK.
So child of that and I want a texture rectangle and a graphics.
You'll see there's a heads up display Hut.
Let's start with a banner hanging PMG and drag that texture.
And there it goes.
So what I'm going to do zoom in a bit.
La la la la.
I will put this on the top right of the screen and then have the visual elements inside this banner.
Right.
So let's move you so get a layout and you're going to go to the top right.
Awesome.
And that is looking pretty solid.
Let's see how that works.
Let's say that and start the game
resize it move things around me now.
Yep that's looking pretty good.
OK.
Now I do want a little bit of space there so let's give it a margin from the top of a team and the rights
of the negative 18.
It doesn't want to do that and that's because the left one is overriding it.
So what we do instead reset that zero minus two six eight minus 18.
So you can put maths in here which is quite nice.
Means I don't have to worry about what that looks like and when I press play it's nice that the gap
around there.
Awesome.
Now I want to organize the elements in here.
So what we do is we have coins which do in a feature video lives and numbers to put each of them.
I think the life should be on the right hand side and the coins been the left and we put the elements
for those in now which can put the actual coins in the functionality of the coins in later.
So clearly I want a way of organizing horizontally.
So let's add a child of texture X and I'm going to put in a box container.
Now you notice box container is a child of container but it's great out this isn't actually an element
we can use.
It's just that organize.
We have three kinds color picker which is that to you know let the play Pick color not really sure why
that counts as a box container.
But never mind with an H box container and a v box container.
Important note I have in the past confuse these with split containers split containers are slightly
different.
That gives you an element that a player can drag to resize things.
I don't want that.
So let's go with our box container and I want a horizontal box container.
Now I want this to take up the entire image which is why I've met a child of texture act.
If I go full rectangle here that's the full rect of the texture rectangle.
However I only want to be inside these white lines so maybe that's give a bit more margin.
So how about from the right minus 24.
These completely random numbers 26 or so plus minus 30.
Yes.
Okay.
From the left 15 too much.
Twelve.
Close enough on the top minus 12.
0 2 right now.
Admittedly I could have just dragged it by like typing in the numbers minus twelve.
Oh look at that.
And that fits perfectly.
All right.
Next thing is I want to put in a couple of textures.
So it's you know the X rectangle and this one is going to be coins and I'm going to need this coin
icon.
There's duplicate coin icon and put in the bunny for this one and rename this life icon.
And now let's put these icons in the center.
So each box container alignment.
And that can be in the center.
Great.
Now these are a little bit bigger than they need to be.
So I want to do is I'm actually going to drag them up like so and it's gonna be me wanting the chalk
container to get that position and size 10 by the parent let's find this exact level.
Let's take a look.
I have moved you up by minus 18.
That looks good.
Let's do the same with the coins.
So rect you'll go up position.
Where are you.
Position position position.
You'll get up by minus 18.
That's actually too high isn't it.
At minus twelve that's about right.
OK.
So I quite like these icons being bigger.
Yeah.
It's looking pretty good.
OK.
Let's add some text on each box container and press control eight add a node and type a label.
And this one is going to go to the left of the coin item.
OK let's give it zero succeed I'm doing and that is clearly not the font we want.
So custom fonts I want to make a new dynamic font.
Click on that go to font.
We've done this before.
I'm going to load under fonts.
I've given you candles CTF right.
That is too small so it's got the settings and how's 48 look.
Not bad actually.
Maybe a little bit more not 48.
I like to use a filter because if I zoom in here you'll see it's all blurry.
Use filter and it's looking good.
Now that's gonna be a little bit hard to see isn't as white with some cream there.
So let's give an outline.
Let's give an outline in black for now.
A terrible choice but whatever and I'll make this a full pixel outline too much maybe too much.
Now if we wanted to get a custom colors and we could give it a new color and if this was my own asset
and I knew what the heck's code here was I probably would buy don't.
And honestly this is a lot of fiddling.
Just for a weird image it's going to clash.
So I believe the fun colors of this but you can change it.
I've got white font with a black outline which is full pixels which is pretty big.
It's gonna look very cartoony so let's rename this coin counts and I want a duplicate coin count and
call this life counts and that is going to live in between.
So we should drag it down.
Now I do kind of watch resize this a bit so I'm going to select both the life count and the coin count
your whole control get both of these.
I'm gonna go down to size flags here it is and on horizontal it's click expand and you know what.
When I line these to the right.
OK so now they grouped together.
And when we get double digits they'll expand.
Let's see how that looks
not bad.
I do feel like this whole H box containing wants to be a little bit higher so let's do that.
Where are your margin.
The top let's actually put you back at zero time.
Yes says look professional.
OK.
So I have this nice little element here.
We could put a different puzzle screen but I like it here.
Now let's make it work.
Take a look at level 1.
Here's our structure right.
We have level 1 level 1 has a player all levels will have a player have a top map it'll have some hazards
some jump pads back music and the gooey goo is receptor from the whole thing.
Now what I need is a way of connecting the gooey to have one I could do this as a signal but I think
when I add gooey to its own group so I mean go back to the gooey scene get a note and this time is not
do it in script let's just give it a graphic user interface group.
So if we needed to we have multiple gooey elements we'd have different kinds of goodies that respond
to different ways but as long as they have this group name they will respond when they're called Save
that measure propagates and I look over here I can see it's in a group.
That's what this icon here is.
That's a signal that's a group.
So now let's give you a script back in the goofy scene at a script and just give it a nice empty script
and save that and I need to actually update this information.
So let's say very first thing we do is we're going to go function ready.
There is and we're gonna set our life count to three.
So to do that I need to get the life count node so dollar life counts.
There goes dot text equals three has to be a string a composite integer.
Okay so I wanna press play I have three lives also.
OK so now let's actually make these numbers update.
Right let's have do that actually works.
Function hearts now with a few different ways we could do this and I'd like to challenge you to pick
the one you like.
So what I'd like you to do is have the gooey update the amount of lives when the bunny is hot.
So every somebody is hurt we should see the amount of lives left.
Suppose the video give that a shot.
When you're happy with the results come back and I'll show you my solution
and welcome back.
All right.
Now what I'm going to do is I'm actually on a call.
I'm going to use the group call that we've set up in game state.
So in game state under Hart which is right here I'm just going to go get tree dot call group
and as a string of call the heart the gooey group not the hurt group if that's not a group.
The Hutt method the function.
And you know what I'm going to pass through an argument I'm gonna pass through lives this way the gooey
doesn't care how many lives it has it just cares what the number is to make that work really go back
into gooey and on a pass lives left as an argument now you might be thinking wait the organ was called
lives not lives left G.D. script is based on Python the Python doesn't actually care what its value
is called elsewhere.
As far as is concerned this value only exists in this function which means we can give it a name that
makes sense in this function.
And all I need to do now is just duplicate this line.
So Control B and then ult and down average bring it down and instead of three it's going to be lives
left except lives left is an integer.
This is a text box.
It has to be a string so let's cast it as a string right.
Let's see how that works.
Press play.
And that's what to a spike that
perfect.
For some reason it didn't update with the spike every time I've got resumed after yield but classes
is gone.
I've track that down a little later it's not really relevant right now.
However what happens if later on we decide that money doesn't start with three lives but it's of the
5 or 1 or whatever
Gilly set up a three.
Well that doesn't work does it.
So what can we do instead.
Well before we go any further this function is actually not hurt as it is a bad names let's call it
update lives as a much better name.
OK.
And the reason I'm doing that is we've got a game state I can change this to update lives
and if you know what let's just cut you control X and that's above and game because I feel like I should
be lost.
Function Update Gary I was at a pace that they're so now on ready.
I'm going to go up there Gary
and on hurt amnio update Gary
and national were great.
So let's see if we have five lives.
We have five lives left.
What happens if we have 50 lives we have 50 lives.
It scales
awesome.
I don't want 50 lives.
I would forget to three awesome.
OK so that brings us to the end of the video in this video.
We've made a gooey.
We've learned how these use an H box container.
And we've updated the gooey.
And just in case you're not quite sure how an exposed container works.
Each box container and V box containers just take the order in the same tree to make it the order in
the screen.
So how's it going.
Did you come up with completely different solution.
Are you using to custom assets for your gooey.
Have you added all kinds of other fun things.
Let me know.
I'm really curious to see how your game is going.
Meanwhile great stuff.
And I'll see you in the next video.